I was talking with a friend a little while ago and I thanked them for something I had been
thinking about lately. We had been friends for a couple years by this point, and I just
feel this sense of hope from its existence. (I do feel good about what our relationship
*is*, but this sense of hope comes from what the relationship *means* ). We've never
fought, they forgive me my rescheduling, they allow me my outbursts. This just hit me the
other day, how different this relationship is.

To me, this relationship means the ability to hope that care and connection don't have to
be difficult. It often is, but it doesn't have to be, we can strive for more sometimes. I
don't quite understand what this took away from inside of me, but something like the fear
of reaching out, or the reluctance of being with others. Anyways, I expressed this
gratitude to my friend, and they responded with a lot of sentiment and warmth, but also
with the words, "Hmm, yea, I think I try to not make some relationships messy."

This was a framing that I had never thought of before! Messiness... Is it messy to express
how a person is affecting you? Is it messy to share a hurt or a grievance? Is it messy to
want the relationship to change, to improve? I mean, I guess it is, but that's not bad!
There's more friction, sure, but there's also reconciliation and togetherness and stakes
and communal movement. It's messy, but its still a dance, and that's really nice.

There's also thoughts like, "Wait no, you made me feel bad, you should know this, not only
so that you don't do it again, but just YOU MADE ME FEEL BAD." That seems important,
naming is important.

All of these things I believe. But like, I can also choose something else sometimes or in
some relationships. I can choose to allow the person to feel what I feel in this
relationship with my friend: comfort, ease, relaxation, connection as something that
doesn't require work. That's so huge for me, and I can do that for others.

I end up being brutal to myself about needing to change or improve, but I work on grace,
on holding and letting myself be. I can just do that for a relationship too sometimes.

This may seem obvious, but to me it's profound. We can provide so much for each other like
togetherness, support, motivation, awareness, building, *momentum*, all of the things in a
relationship around growth. But we can also provide breaks, ease, and stillness.

I think this is something that I can do more of across the board, but I think the profound
thing here, to me, is that I can provide someone with an entire relationship of this. The
only way to express care or closeness is not by showing that you're so invested that you
**have** **to go through all your hurt together because that's real**. It can also be
incredibly care-giving and close and real to let stings pass on by for each other. I don't
want all my relationships to be this, but I the huge shift comes from my previous thinking
that the only real relationship was one in which I always brought up exactly how someone
affected me at every point. This knowledge gives me breath and release.

I don't know when it transitions from someone allowed this specific situation to be
grace-filled, to this relationship is grace-filled, but that seems like a valiant thing to
seek. We'll see. At the very least, I have added another option to my option set :)
