---
{
  "title": "Something Worth Writing", "url": "something-worth-writing", "date": "20 June
  2020", "summary": "There doesn't seem to be any standard way to start a blog, and
  there's probably a good reason for that. So, instead of trying to optimize how to start
  this one, I'm just going to start writing..."
}
---
There doesn't seem to be any standard way to start a blog, and there's probably a good
reason for that. So, instead of trying to optimize how to start this one, I'm just going
to start writing.

So....

Here's me starting to write....

One day....

Okay! Here we go... I don't intend for there to be any particular type of content for this
blog. I mean for this to be a space where I can attempt to share what I see. I have
recently noticed that I don't think I have a drive to find out anything deeply hidden or
basic about the world (something that I always thought I ought to do). Instead, I feel
motivated to learn and share what is currently known, and, if I feel particularly
motivated, to combine what we know in novel ways. I feel happiest in the pursuit of
understanding someone else's words, and I see a lot of value in explaining things in
different ways. I mean this to be a platform for that.

I have no idea what the core of me is, nor what will interest me in a year, and so, after
trying to answer both of those questions while writing this post, I have decided to not
worry about it. Right now I am interested in astronomy, physics, ecology, birds, trees,
reading, effective altruism, anxiety, relationships, rationality, and who I am. If any of
these topics sound interesting, there might be a post about it some day :).

A phrase that has been echoing inside of me for a little while has been "speaking what you
see". I don't know what [they meant when they said it](https://youtu.be/S1zPZXNLvRo), but
I'm getting some ideas of what has made me remember it.

One idea that it has made me think about is that naming things has really enriched my life
on a day-to-day basis. Trees, birds, clouds, stars, people. I feel more connected to the
things around me as I learn to name them. I plan on writing more about this later, but
hopefully that's at lease partially intuitive. Another idea is circumambilating towards
understanding. In some way I'm wrong about most things I know, but the only way I'm going
to have my mental map better correspond to reality is by telling myself the things that I
think I know, and then sharing them with someone else. I don't know how else to build upon
an idea than that. So, I hope to be speaking about things that are real, that I see, to
myself and to others, instead of fearing that I'm wrong and convincing myself that all my
unthought thoughts are the full truth. I think the first step in this is to tell others
what I think I see in the world.

These posts will most likely stay away from current events. There's so much wonder in the
universe, and I want to train myself to notice that more. Hopefully, I can accomplish both
goals in this blog: (1) attempt to explain to myself and others what I see in the world
and (2) notice wonder more.

So, if any of this sounds interesting, that makes me happy, and if not, many other people
have words to share and [you should check them
out](https://www.camenpiho.com/recommendations?search=blog) and that makes me happy too :).
